.TH SCOUT 1 "2026" "scout" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
scout \- tag and search your files, fast
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scout
[\fIFLAGS\fR]
.br
.B scout
\fI"query"\fR
.br
.B scout
\fI@tag\fR
.br
.B scout
\fI@tag "query"\fR
.br
.B scout
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B scout
is a lightweight CLI tool for finding files using workspaces and full-text search.
Register directories as workspaces, optionally label files with custom tags,
and search across everything instantly using SQLite FTS5.
.PP
All data is stored in \fB~/.scout/scout.db\fR. No daemon, no background process,
no setup required \(em scout initialises automatically on first use.
.SH ARGUMENT DISPATCH
When called with positional arguments (no subcommand), scout dispatches as follows:
.TP
.B scout "\fIquery\fR"
Full-text search across all tracked files.
.TP
.B scout @\fItag\fR
List all files under a tag. Equivalent to \fBscout tag show @\fItag\fR.
.TP
.B scout @\fItag\fR "\fIquery\fR"
Full-text search scoped to files under a tag.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS watch
Manage watched workspaces (indexed directories).
.TP
.B scout watch add \fIpath\fR
Register a directory as a workspace. Scout scans all files inside and indexes
them. The directory name becomes an implicit tag (e.g. \fB~/code/myproject\fR \(->
\fB@myproject\fR). Respects \fB.scoutignore\fR at the workspace root and global
ignore rules in \fB~/.scout/config.toml\fR.
.TP
.B scout watch remove \fIpath\fR
Unregister a workspace and remove all its files from the index.
Does not delete files from disk.
.TP
.B scout watch list
List all registered workspaces with file counts.
.TP
.B scout watch sync
Rescan all workspaces: add newly created files, remove entries for deleted files.
.SS tag
Manage user-defined tags.
.TP
.B scout tag add @\fIname\fR \fIpath\fR
Add a tag to a file or directory (recursively for directories).
The file must already be tracked inside a watched workspace.
.TP
.B scout tag remove @\fIname\fR \fIpath\fR
Remove a tag from a file or directory (recursively for directories).
.TP
.B scout tag list
List all tags with file counts. Workspace tags are marked \fI(workspace)\fR.
.TP
.B scout tag show @\fIname\fR
List all files associated with a tag.
.SS prune
.TP
.B scout prune
Scan all tracked file paths and remove DB entries for files that no longer
exist on disk. Prints a summary of removed entries.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.scout/scout.db
SQLite database storing workspaces, files, tags, and the FTS5 search index.
.TP
.B ~/.scout/config.toml
Optional configuration file. Example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
[ignore]
dirs = ["vendor", "coverage"]
extensions = [".pyc", ".class"]
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B .scoutignore
Place in the root of a watched workspace to exclude files using
.BR gitignore (5)-style
glob patterns. Only read from the workspace root, not recursively.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Register a workspace and search it:
.PP
.RS
.nf
scout watch add ~/code/myproject
scout "postgres config"
scout @myproject "database"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Tag a subdirectory and search within it:
.PP
.RS
.nf
scout tag add @backend ~/code/myproject/src
scout @backend "auth"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Clean up stale entries after deleting files:
.PP
.RS
.nf
scout prune
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error (bad arguments, file not found, database failure).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR find (1),
.BR grep (1),
.BR fd (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by pavlitoss.
